Nmap can be accessed by tying nmap in the terminal command line, followed by swtiches(arguments [-sV]).
Nmap help menu can be accessed with 'nmap -h'
You can also see the manual/man page to Nmap with this command: 'man nmap'.

What is the first switch listen in the help menu for 'Syn Scan'?:
'-sS': SYN Scan

Which switch would you use for a 'UDP scan'?:
'-sU': UDP Scan

If you wanted to detect which operatin system the target is running on, which switch would you use?:
'-O': Enable OS detection

Nmap provides a switch to detect the version of the services runnin on the target. What is this switch?:
'-sV': Probe open ports to determine service/version info

The defauld output provided by nmap often does not provide enough information for a pentester. How would you increase the verbosity?:
'-v': Increase verbosity level (use -vv or more for greate effect)

Verbosity level one is good, but verbosity level two is better! How would you set the verbosity level to two: (NOTE: it's highly advisable to always use at least this option):
'-vv'

We should always save the output of our scans -- this means that we only need to run the scan once (reducing netword traffic and thus chance of detection), and gives us a reference to use when writing reports for clients.

What switch would you use to save the nmap resluts in three major formats?:
'-oA': <basename>: Output in the three major formats at once

What switch would you use to save the nmap results in a 'normal' format?:
'-oN': <file>: saves scan to normal format

A very usefull output format: how would you save results in a 'grepable' format?:
'-oG': <file>: saves scan to grepable format

Sometimes the results we're getting just aren't enough. If we don't care about how loud we are, we can enable "aggressive" mode. This is a shorthand switch that activates service detection, operating system detection, a traceroute and common script scanning.

How would you activate this setting?:
'-A'

Nmap offers five levels of 'timing' template. These are essentially used to increase the speed you scan runs at. Be careful though: higher speeds are noisier, and can incur errors!

How would you set the timing template to level 6?:
'-T5': Set timing template (higher is faster)

We can also choose which port(s) to scan.

How would you tell nmap to only scan port 80?:
'-p 80': <port ranges> only scan specific ports

How would you tell nmap to scan ports 1000-1500?:
'-p 1000-1500'

A very useful option that should not be ignored:

How would you tell nmap to scan all ports?:
'-p-': scan all ports

How would you activate a script from the nmap scripting library?:
'--script': <Lua scripts>: <Lua scripts> is a comma separated list of dictionaries, script-files or script-catagories


How would you activate all of the scripts in the "vuln" category?:
'--script=vuln'
